# 13.2 Customizing routers

## HTTP routing

The HTTP routing component is responsible for mapping HTTP requests to a corresponding function or `struct` method. The router takes two key pieces of information from incoming requests: 

-The user requested path (for example, `/user/123,/article/123`), and any query strings or parameters that come with it (for example, `?id=11`)
-The HTTP request method (GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE, PATCH, etc.)

The router then forwards the request to the handler function (controller layer) that has been registered with that particular HTTP method and path.

## Default routing implementation

In section 3.4, we introduced Go's `http` package in detail, which included how to design and implement routing. Here, we take another look at an example that illustrates the routing process:

	func fooHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
		fmt.Fprintf(w, "Hello, %q", html.EscapeString(r.URL.Path))
	}

	http.Handle("/foo", fooHandler)

	http.HandleFunc("/bar", func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
		fmt.Fprintf(w, "Hello, %q", html.EscapeString(r.URL.Path))
	})

	log.Fatal(http.ListenAndServe(":8080", nil))
	
The example above calls `http`'s default mux called `DefaultServeMux`, implicitly specified by the `nil` parameter in the call to `http.ListenAndServe`. The `http.Handle` function takes two parameters: the first parameter is the resource you want users to access, specified by its URL path (which is stored in `r.URL.Path`) and the second argument binds a handler function with this path. The Router has two main jobs: 

- To add and store routing information
- To forward requests to a handler function for processing

By default, Go routes are handled with `http.Handle` and `http.HandleFunc` types, registered by default through the underlying `DefaultServeMux.Handle(pattern string, handler Handler)` function. This function maps resource paths to handlers and stores them in a `map[string]muxEntry` map. This is the first job that we mentioned above. 

When the application is running, the Go server listens to a port. When it receives a tcp connection, it uses a `Handler` to process it. As aforementioned, since the `Handler` in the example above is `nil`, the default router `http.DefaultServeMux` is used. Using the map of previously stored routes, `DefaultServeMux.ServeHTTP` will dispatch the request to the first handler with a matching path. This is the router's second job.    

	for k, v := range mux.m {
		if !pathMatch(k, path) {
			continue
		}
		if h == nil || len(k) > n {
			n = len(k)
			h = v.h
		}
	}

## Routing with Beego 

At present, most Go web applications base their routing on `http`'s default router, however this has several limitations: 

- Does not support dynamic routes with parameters, such as `the/user/:UID` 
- Does not have good support for REST. The access methods cannot be restricted; for instance in the above example, when users access `/foo`, they can use the GET, POST, DELETE, and HEAD HTTP methods, among others. 
- In large apps, routing rules can become repetitive and cumbersome. Personally, I've developed simple web APIs composed of nearly thirty routing rules when in fact, these rules could have been further simplified using method structs. 

The Beego framework's router is designed to overcome these limitations, taking the REST paradigm into consideration and simplifying the storing and forwarding of routes and requests.  

### Storing routes

To address the first limitation of the default router, we need to be able to support dynamic URL parameters. For the second and third points, we adopt an alternative approach,mapping REST methods to struct methods and routing requests to this struct instead of to handler functions. This way, a forwarded request can be handled according to it's HTTP method. 

Based on the above ideas, we've designed two data types: `controllerInfo`, which saves the path and the corresponding `controllerType` struct as a `reflect.Type` type, and `ControllerRegistor`, which saves routing information for the specified Beego application. 

	type controllerInfo struct {
		regex          *regexp.Regexp
		params         map[int]string
		controllerType reflect.Type
	}

	type ControllerRegistor struct {
		routers     []*controllerInfo
		Application *App
	}

ControllerRegistor's external interface contains the following method: 

	func(p *ControllerRegistor) Add(pattern string, c ControllerInterface)

Its detailed implementation is as follows:

	func (p *ControllerRegistor) Add(pattern string, c ControllerInterface) {
		parts := strings.Split(pattern, "/")
	
		j := 0
		params := make(map[int]string)
		for i, part := range parts {
			if strings.HasPrefix(part, ":") {
				expr := "([^/]+)"

				//a user may choose to override the default expression
				// similar to expressjs: ‘/user/:id([0-9]+)’
 
				if index := strings.Index(part, "("); index != -1 {
					expr = part[index:]
					part = part[:index]
				}
				params[j] = part
				parts[i] = expr
				j++
			}
		}
	
		//recreate the url pattern, with parameters replaced
		//by regular expressions. Then compile the regex.

		pattern = strings.Join(parts, "/")
		regex, regexErr := regexp.Compile(pattern)
		if regexErr != nil {

			//TODO add error handling here to avoid panic
			panic(regexErr)
			return
		}
	
		//now create the Route
		t := reflect.Indirect(reflect.ValueOf(c)).Type()
		route := &controllerInfo{}
		route.regex = regex
		route.params = params
		route.controllerType = t
	
		p.routers = append(p.routers, route)
	
	}
	
### Static routing

We've implemented dynamic routing in our example above. By default, Go's `http` package supports serving static files with `http.FileServer`, which returns a `Handler`. Since we have implemented a custom router, we will also need a way of handling static files. Beego's static folder path is saved in a global variable called `StaticDir`, which maps the URL to corresponding paths. The `SetStaticPath`'s implementation can be seen below: 

	func (app *App) SetStaticPath(url string, path string) *App {
		StaticDir[url] = path
		return app
	}

The application's static routes can be set like so:

	beego.SetStaticPath("/img", "/static/img")

### Forwarding routes

We can forward routes based on the forwarding information contained within `ControllerRegistor`. The detailed implementation can be seen in the following code snippet:

	// AutoRoute
	func (p *ControllerRegistor) ServeHTTP(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
		defer func() {
			if err := recover(); err != nil {
				if !RecoverPanic {
					// go back to panic
					panic(err)
				} else {
					Critical("Handler crashed with error", err)
					for i := 1; ; i += 1 {
						_, file, line, ok := runtime.Caller(i)
						if !ok {
							break
						}
						Critical(file, line)
					}
				}
			}
		}()
		var started bool
		for prefix, staticDir := range StaticDir {
			if strings.HasPrefix(r.URL.Path, prefix) {
				file := staticDir + r.URL.Path[len(prefix):]
				http.ServeFile(w, r, file)
				started = true
				return
			}
		}
		requestPath := r.URL.Path
	
		//find a matching Route
		for _, route := range p.routers {
	
			//check if Route pattern matches url
			if !route.regex.MatchString(requestPath) {
				continue
			}
	
			//get submatches (params)
			matches := route.regex.FindStringSubmatch(requestPath)
	
			//double check that the Route matches the URL pattern.
			if len(matches[0]) != len(requestPath) {
				continue
			}
	
			params := make(map[string]string)
			if len(route.params) > 0 {
				//add url parameters to the query param map
				values := r.URL.Query()
				for i, match := range matches[1:] {
					values.Add(route.params[i], match)
					params[route.params[i]] = match
				}
	
				//reassemble query params and add to RawQuery
				r.URL.RawQuery = url.Values(values).Encode() + "&" + r.URL.RawQuery
				//r.URL.RawQuery = url.Values(values).Encode()
			}
			//Invoke the request handler
			vc := reflect.New(route.controllerType)
			init := vc.MethodByName("Init")
			in := make([]reflect.Value, 2)
			ct := &Context{ResponseWriter: w, Request: r, Params: params}
			in[0] = reflect.ValueOf(ct)
			in[1] = reflect.ValueOf(route.controllerType.Name())
			init.Call(in)
			in = make([]reflect.Value, 0)
			method := vc.MethodByName("Prepare")
			method.Call(in)
			if r.Method == "GET" {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Get")
				method.Call(in)
			} else if r.Method == "POST" {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Post")
				method.Call(in)
			} else if r.Method == "HEAD" {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Head")
				method.Call(in)
			} else if r.Method == "DELETE" {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Delete")
				method.Call(in)
			} else if r.Method == "PUT" {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Put")
				method.Call(in)
			} else if r.Method == "PATCH" {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Patch")
				method.Call(in)
			} else if r.Method == "OPTIONS" {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Options")
				method.Call(in)
			}
			if AutoRender {
				method = vc.MethodByName("Render")
				method.Call(in)
			}
			method = vc.MethodByName("Finish")
			method.Call(in)
			started = true
			break
		}
	
		//if no matches to url, throw a not found exception
		if started == false {
			http.NotFound(w, r)
		}
	}

### Getting started

Using our router design, we can solve the three limitations mentioned earlier. The three main use-cases are:

Registering route handlers: 

	beego.BeeApp.RegisterController("/", &controllers.MainController{})

Handling dynamic parameters:

	beego.BeeApp.RegisterController("/:param", &controllers.UserController{})

Regex matching:

	beego.BeeApp.RegisterController("/users/:uid([0-9]+)", &controllers.UserController{})

## Links

- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous section: [Project planning](13.1.md)
- Next section: [Designing controllers](13.3.md)
