# 14 Developing a web framework

Chapter 13 described how to develop a web framework in Go. We introduced the MVC architecture, a routing and logging system, and we also looked at simple server configuration. These are the basic building blocks of most frameworks, and it's a good start. However, for more sophisticated needs, some auxiliary tools are needed to facilitate rapid website development. In this chapter, we will provide some quick tips and tools for speeding up development. The first section will cover the how-to's how processing static files and we will be using Twitter's open source CSS and Javascript framework called Bootstrap for beautifying our website. The second section describes how to use the previously described sessions for user login processing. Next, the third section describes how to generate forms, and how to process these forms for valid data. We will also talk about how to bind models for CRUD operations. In section 4, we'll describe how to perform some user authentication including basic HTTP authentication and HTTP digest authentication. Finally, the last section will talk about implementing the previously described i18n, to support multi-lingual web applications.

By extending Beego in this chapter, we will be able to rapidly develop full stack web applications. Of course, we'll go through the features of these extensions step-by-step, applying them to the blogging system we developed in Chapter 13. Through the development of a complete and beautiful blogging system, users will hopefully be able to see how Beego can help to boost developer productivity.  

## Links

- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous chapter: [Chapter 13 summary](13.6.md)
- Next section: [Static files](14.1.md)
