# 5.5 Develop ORM based on beedb

( ***Project beedb is no longer maintained, but code still there*** )

beedb is a ORM, "Object/Relational Mapping", that developed in Go by me.
It uses Go style to operate database, implemented mapping struct to database records. It's a lightweight Go ORM framework, the purpose of developing this ORM is to help people learn how to write ORM, and finds a good balance between functions and performance. 

beedb is an open source project, and supports basic functions of ORM, but doesn't support associated query.

Because beedb support `database/sql` interface standards, so any driver that supports this interface can be used in beedb, I've tested following drivers:

Mysql: [github.com/ziutek/mymysql/godrv](github.com/ziutek/mymysql/godrv)

Mysql: [code.google.com/p/go-mysql-driver](code.google.com/p/go-mysql-driver)

PostgreSQL: [github.com/bmizerany/pq](github.com/bmizerany/pq)

SQLite: [github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3](github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3)

MS ADODB: [github.com/mattn/go-adodb](github.com/mattn/go-adodb)

ODBC: [bitbucket.org/miquella/mgodbc](bitbucket.org/miquella/mgodbc)

## Installation

You can use `go get` to install beedb in your computer.

	go get github.com/astaxie/beedb

## Initialization

First, you have to import all corresponding packages as follows:

	import (
	    "database/sql"
	    "github.com/astaxie/beedb"
	    _ "github.com/ziutek/mymysql/godrv"
	)

Then you need to open a database connection and create a beedb object(MySQL in this example):

	db, err := sql.Open("mymysql", "test/xiemengjun/123456")
	if err != nil {
	    panic(err)
	}
	orm := beedb.New(db)

`beedb.New()` actually has two arguments, the first one is for standard requirement, and the second one is for indicating database engine, but if you are using MySQL/SQLite, you can just skip the second one.

Otherwise, you have to initialize, like SQLServer:

	orm = beedb.New(db, "mssql")

PostgreSQL:

	orm = beedb.New(db, "pg")

beedb supports debug, and use following code to enable:

	beedb.OnDebug=true

Now we have a struct for the database table `Userinfo` that we used in previous sections.

	type Userinfo struct {
	    Uid     int `PK` // if the primary key is not id, you need to add tag `PK` for your customized primary key.
	    Username    string
	    Departname  string
	    Created     time.Time
	}

Be aware that beedb auto-convert your camel style name to underline and lower case letter. For example, we have `UserInfo` as the struct name, and it will be `user_info` in database, same rule for field name.
Camel

## Insert data

The following example shows you how to use beedb to save a struct instead of SQL command, and use Save method to apply change.

	var saveone Userinfo
	saveone.Username = "Test Add User"
	saveone.Departname = "Test Add Departname"
	saveone.Created = time.Now()
	orm.Save(&saveone)

And you can check `saveone.Uid` after inserted, its value is self-increase ID, Save method did this job for you.

beedb provides another way to insert data, which is using map.

	add := make(map[string]interface{})
	add["username"] = "astaxie"
	add["departname"] = "cloud develop"
	add["created"] = "2012-12-02"
	orm.SetTable("userinfo").Insert(add)

Insert multiple data:

	addslice := make([]map[string]interface{}, 10)
	add:=make(map[string]interface{})
	add2:=make(map[string]interface{})
	add["username"] = "astaxie"
	add["departname"] = "cloud develop"
	add["created"] = "2012-12-02"
	add2["username"] = "astaxie2"
	add2["departname"] = "cloud develop2"
	add2["created"] = "2012-12-02"
	addslice =append(addslice, add, add2)
	orm.SetTable("userinfo").InsertBatch(addslice)

The way I showed you above is like chain query, you should be familiar if you know jquery. It returns original ORM object after calls, and continue to do other jobs.

The method `SetTable` tells ORM we want to insert our data to table `userinfo`.

## Update data

Continue above example to show how to update data. Now we have primary key value of saveone(Uid), so beedb executes update operation instead of inserting new record.

	saveone.Username = "Update Username"
	saveone.Departname = "Update Departname"
	saveone.Created = time.Now()
	orm.Save(&saveone)  // update

You can use map for updating data also:

	t := make(map[string]interface{})
	t["username"] = "astaxie"
	orm.SetTable("userinfo").SetPK("uid").Where(2).Update(t)

Let me explain some methods we used above:

- `.SetPK()` tells ORM `uid` is the primary key of table `userinfo`.
- `.Where()` sets conditions, supports multiple arguments, if the first argument is a integer, it's a short form of `Where("<primary key>=?", <value>)`. 
- `.Update()` method accepts map and update to database.

## Query data

beedb query interface is very flexible, let's see some examples:

Example 1, query by primary key:

	var user Userinfo
	// Where accepts two arguments, supports integers
	orm.Where("uid=?", 27).Find(&user)

Example 2:

	var user2 Userinfo
	orm.Where(3).Find(&user2) // short form that omits primary key

Example 3, other query conditions:

	var user3 Userinfo
	// Where accepts two arguments, supports char type.
	orm.Where("name = ?", "john").Find(&user3)

Example 4, more complex conditions:

	var user4 Userinfo
	// Where accepts three arguments
	orm.Where("name = ? and age < ?", "john", 88).Find(&user4)

Examples to get multiple records:

Example 1, gets 10 records that `id>3` and starts with position 20:

	var allusers []Userinfo
	err := orm.Where("id > ?", "3").Limit(10,20).FindAll(&allusers)

Example 2, omits the second argument of limit, so it starts with 0 and gets 10 records:

	var tenusers []Userinfo
	err := orm.Where("id > ?", "3").Limit(10).FindAll(&tenusers)

Example 3, gets all records:

	var everyone []Userinfo
	err := orm.OrderBy("uid desc,username asc").FindAll(&everyone)

As you can see, the Limit method is for limiting number of results.

- `.Limit()` supports two arguments, which are number of results and start position. 0 is the default value of start position.
- `.OrderBy()` is for ordering results, the arguments is the order condition.

All examples that you see is mapping records to structs, and you can also just put data into map as follows:

	a, _ := orm.SetTable("userinfo").SetPK("uid").Where(2).Select("uid,username").FindMap()

- `.Select()` tells beedb how many fields you want to get from database table, returns all fields as default.
- `.FindMap()` returns type `[]map[string][]byte`, so you need to convert to other types by yourself. 

## Delete data

beedb provides rich methods to delete data.

Example 1, delete a single record:

	// saveone is the one in above example.
	orm.Delete(&saveone)

Example 2, delete multiple records:

	// alluser is the slice which gets multiple records.
	orm.DeleteAll(&alluser)

Example 3, delete records by SQL:

	orm.SetTable("userinfo").Where("uid>?", 3).DeleteRow()

## Associated query

beedb doesn't support joining between structs.
However since some applications need this feature, here is a  implementation:

	a, _ := orm.SetTable("userinfo").Join("LEFT", "userdetail", "userinfo.uid=userdetail.uid")
		.Where("userinfo.uid=?", 1).Select("userinfo.uid,userinfo.username,userdetail.profile").FindMap()

We see a new method called `.Join()`, it has three arguments:

- The first argument: Type of Join; INNER, LEFT, OUTER, CROSS, etc.
- The second argument: the table you want to join with.
- The third argument: join condition.

## Group By and Having

beedb also has a implementation of `group by` and `having`. 

	a, _ := orm.SetTable("userinfo").GroupBy("username").Having("username='astaxie'").FindMap()

- `.GroupBy()` indicates field that is for group by.
- `.Having()` indicates conditions of having.

## Future

I have received many feedback from many people from all around world, and I'm thinking about reconfiguration in following aspects:

- Implement interface design like `database/sql/driver` in order to implement corresponding CRUD operations.
- Implement relational database design, one to one, one to many, many to many, here are some samples:

				type Profile struct {
					Nickname string
					Mobile   string
				}
				type Userinfo struct {
					Uid         int
					PK_Username string
					Departname  string
					Created     time.Time
					Profile     HasOne
				}
		 
- Auto-create table and index.
- Implement connection pool through goroutine.

## Links

- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous section: [PostgreSQL](05.4.md)
- Next section: [NoSQL database](05.6.md)
