# 10 Internationalization and localization

In order to adapt to globalization, as a developer, we need to develop a multilingual, international Web applications.
This means the same page in a different language environment need to show a different effect. For example, the application at runtime according to the request from the geographical and language differences and display a different user interface. Thus, when an application needs to add support for a new language, the need to modify the application code, just add language packs can be realized.

Internationalization and Localization (usually expressed as i18n and L10N), internationalization is an area designed for the reconstruction program to enable it to use in more areas, localization refers to a face international programs to increase support for the new region.

Currently, Go language standard package does not provide i18n support, but there are some relatively simple third-party implementations of this chapter we will achieve a go-i18n library to support the Go language i18n.

The so-called International: is based on a specific locale information, extracted with the corresponding string or some other things (such as time and currency format) and so on. This involves three issues:

1. how to determine the locale.

2. how to save the string associated with the locale or other information.

3. how to extract according to locale strings and other appropriate information.

In the first section, we will describe how to set the correct locale in order to allow access to the site's users to get their language corresponding page. The second section describes how to handle or store strings, currency, time, date and other locale related information, and the third section describes how to achieve international sites, namely, how to return different depending on locale appropriate content. Through these three sections of the study, we will get a full i18n program.

## Links

- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous Chapter: [Chapter 9 Summary](09.7.md)
- Next section: [Time zone](10.1.md)
