# 11 Error Handling, Debugging, and Testing

We often see the majority of a programmer's "programming" time spent on checking for bugs and working on bug fixes. Whether you are prepared to amend the code or re-configurable systems, almost all spend a lot of time troubleshooting and testing, we feel that the outside world is a designer programmer, able to put a system has never done, is a very great work, but the work is quite interesting, but in fact every day we are wandering in troubleshooting, debugging, testing between. Of course, if you have good habits and technology solutions to confront these questions, then you are likely to minimize troubleshooting time, and as much as possible to spend time in the more valuable things.

But unfortunately a lot of programmers unwilling error handling, debugging and testing capabilities to work on, leading to the back on the line after the application for errors, positioning spend more time. So we do a good job in the design of the application before the error-handling plan, test cases, etc., then the future to modify the code, upgrade the system will become simpler.

Web application development process, errors are inevitable, so how better to find the cause of the error, solve the problem? Section 11.1 describes how to handle errors Go language, how to design your own package, error handling function, 11.2 section describes how to use GDB to debug our program, the dynamic operation of various variable information, operation monitoring and debugging.

Section 11.3 of the Go language will explore in depth the unit tests and examples how to write unit tests, Go unit test specification how to define rules to ensure that future upgrades to modify run the appropriate test code can be minimized test.

For a long time, develop good debugging, testing has been a lot of programmers accustomed to evade thing, so now you do not escape, from your current project development, from the beginning to learn Go Web developers to develop good habits.

## Links

- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous chapter: [Chapter 10 summary](10.4.md)
- Next section: [Error handling](11.1.md)
